# Saturday, 09 May 2026

Yesterday, I mentioned three diaries I've been writing while working through SICP, learning Rust, and learning Haskell. Those diaries have been abandoned; one has been picked up again. I'd like to connect those dots in this entry.

In summer 2022, I was meandering in my efforts to learn functional programming. I looked into Haskell, Elixir, worked through classes on Coursera that used ML and Scala, and also tried out some Clojure, which I could even use for my day job at one occasion.

I remember having taken a walk in the woods, during which I was thinking about my lack of focus. Then I decided to stick to one thing for as long as possible that is guaranteed to provide some benefit in the long run. So I picked SICP for this project and decided to work every day with that book, even if I just read a single page or work on an exercise for 15 minutes.

And so I did. Even on the day I moved I managed to work on an exercise. I had to push my code (and diary entry) through a WiFi hotspot, and I was literally doing this surrounded by boxes with my wrapped up belongings.

I continued my efforts for roughly nine months until march 2023. Then I had to work on the first project for my own company, for which I had to learn Ruby on Rails quickly. My habit of daily learning paid off: I only had to shift my focus from SICP to Ruby on Rails for the designated morning slot; the routine was already there.

I got into SICP again for a week or so in summer 2023, but then stopped again for no apparent reason. (For me, the summer break is not a reason to abandon such a project.) I had a lot of classes to teach in fall and needed to prepare those. But I cannot think of any other systematic learning approach during that time.

On a hike during my summer vacation, I had the idea to work through _Introduction to Algorithms_ by implementing all the algorithms in multiple languages (Go, Rust, Erlang, and Clojure). I abandoned the project after a discovery: The lower sorting algorithms (Bubble Sort, Insertion Sort, Selection Sort) were way easier to implement in structured than in functional programming languages. For the higher sorting algorithms (Quick Sort, Merge Sort), however, the functional implementation was way easier and clearer than the structured one.

From that sentiment, I must have meandered through various functional languages again. I remember learning Erlang during the fall and winter. I also learned some Elixir again. But I didn't focus to any single language for an extended period of time.

This must have been an issue for me, because in March 2024 I decided to learn Rust for good. I sticked to it over the summer break, until I abandoned it in the fall of 2024. I absolutely loved Rust, except for a couple of data structures that go absolutely against Rust's grain: double-linked lists and graph algorithms, unless expressed using an adjacency matrix.

But this was just the minor issue. The major one was async. Once you go from textbook Rust to real-world Rust, you absolutely need async. And since async functions can only be called from other async functions, the code base quickly becomes infested with async functions.

I also tried out some Rust web framework. The book "Rust Servers, Services, and Apps" (using the actix framework) from Manning was possibly a poor choice. Having written a prototype for a possible company project, which then was abandoned, I decided to stick to Go for such endeavours for the time being.

I cannot remember any serious learning efforts going on between the fall of 2024 and the summer of 2025, when I got into Haskell again. I implemented some board games (Reversi and Spot), for which I implemented the Minimax algorithm using alpha-beta pruning. This was all very interesting.

However, I then got stuck porting those programs into a proper project structure (using Stack or Cabal). I also had a lot of teaching duties during that time that also required creating fresh coursework. So I abandoned Haskell once again.

My plans to pick it up at the end of January again failed, because I was rather burned out from teaching back then. I tried out Phoenix, but just wasn't able to muster the motivation required for it. I regressed to Go again, with which I wanted to work through the "Introduction to Algorithms" again, which I abandoned rather quickly again.

A month ago, I finally felt motivated for Haskell again. I picked up the book _Effective Haskell_, which teaches at a rather gentle pace. My goal was to become able to properly package libraries and applications using Cabal, for which I'm writing an article series now.

For this article series, I re-implement my _Soccer Table_ stock program in Haskell. I managed to get it to work. Now I just have to add some unit tests, then I'd like to ship it as a proper Haskell package to Hackage.

Having learned about Haskell's way of handling input and output, all of a sudden I had an insight: Rust's `async` is basically Haskell's `IO`. Technically speaking, those are entirely different concepts. But from the perspective of source organization, they bear a simiarity: Haskell's `IO` infests the code as Rust's `async` is doing. It is always possible to call non-polluted functions from polluted once, but not the other way around.

So by separating the pure/non-IO portion of an application from the impure/IO portion of it, the `IO`/`async` "pollution" or "infestation" is controllable with proper engineering and discipline. With that insight, I absolutely want to get into Rust again. And this time, I'd like to use the Tokio async stack with its Axum web framework.

I seriously consider rewriting the backend for my Cloud Castle prototype, which is written in Go. I just miss the challenge writing Go code for an extended period of time. And I totally miss sum types, i.e. Rust's `enum`, which is Haskell's `data` mechanism, for that matter.

So my plan is to finish up my work on the _Soccer Table_ program in Haskell by writing unit tests for it. Then I'd like to ship it to Hackage, after which I can write the fourth (and final) article of the series. Then I'll hit the pause button on Haskell and start working with Rust again.

I still absolutely like Haskell, but over the summer I'd like to get some productive work done. Cloud Castle shall be in a good shape for the beginning of the new school year in late August. And my Haskell skills just won't be ready for such an endeavour yet. But I'm feeling confident pulling it off with Rust.

These are my plans for this summer.
