# Monday, 11 May 2026

I didn't manage to work on my article on finishing and publishing the _Soccer Table_ program today. However, I had some activities going on related to programming.

1. I had to grade some programming exams. This was mostly simple TypeScript code my students had to criticize. The code contained some comments that pointed to a flaw in the program logic. So those aren't superfluous as some students judged them. Some students were rather confused about the distinction between functional and stylistic issues. For that course, the rule is quite simple: If a unit test can detect an issue, then it's a functional problem, otherwise a stylistic one. Then they needed to re-write some unit test assertions in a more concise way. Some students simplified the test data instead. So this wasn't a great way to spend my afternoon.
2. I ran my forkyporkies program for my teaching repositories. I figured out a flaw: When the committer isn't the owner of the repository because it is owned by an organization rather than an individual, the program attributes the commits to the student. I need to implement a way to add committers to be ignored. Or maybe the person to make the first commit should always be ignored when counting commits; the program was designed to assess the effort made on forks, after all.

I need to finish the last third of the book "Agile!" by Bertrand Meyer. I was very excited about it in the beginning. Now it became a bit of a drag lately. But I need to pull through.

Then it's time to continue working on the Go implementation of achim again. Speaking of Go: I discarded of two books that collected dust on my shelf. Now I no longer own a single book on Go, except for a couple eBooks, of course. I also put up some other books for sale, a lot of them with the name "Robert C. Martin" on its cover. I marked some sentences in the early chapters of some. Those I cannot sell, so I discarded them too. This purge felt quite good!

So, no serious work going on at the moment due to a day of teaching and grading exams.

My goal is to write and publish the fourth article on the _Soccer Table_ program tomorrow. Then I can finish up my pending Go work before I pivot to Rust, in which I'd like to re-implement the Cloud Castle backend.

Before doing that, I'll need to write a library to sign the requests to Exoscale. I managed to do that in Clojure last year, so it should not be too much of an issue to do it in Rust. A smooth integration to the reqwest library will be an entire different issue. But as a first step, I just need to make it work.

So that's all for today, which is rather a wasted one, just like yesterday…
