# Tuesday, 12 May 2026

Today, I wrote the fourth (and last) part of my article series on how to write and publish a Haskell project using Cabal. Writing those articles was a good idea, because it pulled me through the entire project. There are two games (Reversi and Spot) implemented in Haskell that sit on my disk. I should package them soon so that they can be installed using Cabal.

The ecosystem looks in a good shape. Cabal looks a bit dusty in parts. I discovered that the `cabal format` command, which re-formats the Cabal file itself, dissolves the common sections and integrates them into the referencing sections. An issue was opened for it in 2018, initially dismissed, but then re-opened. But nobody cared to resolve that issue.

The `cabal gen-bounds` command also looks useful, but it could put those rules right into the Cabal file on its own, at least so when an according flag is specified. So there would be some room for improvement. But the community seems to use Stack instead, which is based on Cabal, as far as I know.

Having documented everything I learned during the last month, I'll put my Haskell tools down for a while and pick up Rust once again. For this purpose, I opened the repository [trpl](https://codeberg.org/patrickbucher/trpl) (short for _The Rust Programming Language_, the title of the book I'd like to re-read) on Codeberg. I'd like to use Codeberg more often in the future in order to get away from GitHub. I'll still use GitHub to collaborate with other people, but I don't need to host my stuff there.
