# Sunday, 17 May 2026

On the Rust front, I read the first half of the fourth chapter. Re-reading trpl is a bit of a struggle, because I quickly remember most of the things.

However, preparing the lesson about User Stories, I had a couple of issues to resolve. My students will have the task assigned to write user stories on the soccer table stock program. The first part is match making. I noticed an issue in the algorithm, which only happens for longer lists for some reason. The algorithm always matched the same teams. I wasn't able to figure out the issue, but I had the hunch that the list of teams was modified in-place, leaving it in a state where the next rotation would come out as the first one again. I tried to verify this by copying the list when passing it to the pairing algorithm. This immediately resolved the issue.

Or so I thought, until now. Given a list of six teams enumerated from A to F, the teams C and F are getting paired together twice. D on the one side and A and F on the other side are paired twice, too. So I performed the algorithm mentally and wrote out the output: The algorithm is conceptually sound, but there must be an issue with the implementation.

Having re-implemented the algorithm, everything works fine now. The solution involved an additional function that rotates an array around its first item. How did I figure out to write that? Well, I considered re-writing the generator in Haskell, which requires a more declarative approach. I figured out how to do it on paper. Now I typed it in using Python, and the algorithm became much clearer—and correct, for that matter.

This trope of "Haskell will make you a better programmer even if you'll never write a line of code in it for production" used to rather annoy me. Learning Haskell is a great intellectual exercise of course, but why not just using it? However, now I saw a good example how it tidied up my mind. I just threw out the algorithm and re-wrote it in a simpler manner. The declarative way of thinking, which does _not_ involve change, is a better fit for our limited minds. No debuggers have been involved in fixing the mess.

So this issue was resolved _while_ writing this diary entry. This reminds me of the importance to think about the things you do. Writing again about them will make you think about it. This is called "reflection", and I can absolutely recommend it.

There was another issue with the soccer table program. I figured out that some teams have been missing in the output table. This happened for the Bundesliga, but not for the Premier League or La Liga. The issue is the regex-posix library, which apparently cannot handle unicode characters. This is really annoying, and I didn't even attempt to fix it yet. I probably have to use another regex implementation. The code invoking the regex-base library hopefully can stay the same.

Now I had to figure out this issue, too, of course. And replacing regex-posix by regex-tdfa solved the issue. I had to replace the import and a couple of version indicators, and everything worked fine. I also provided a changelog to the package and published it in a later version. This allows me to use the Bundesliga example tomorrow in class!

Once again, writing about what I did lead me to thinking about it again, which then lead to action: I just fixed two issues while reviewing my day. I also learned a lot doing that, and I once again feel better about Haskell. I also feel better about my day and myself now…
